# 7 Best Smart Home Upgrades

We live in an interconnected world that has transformed almost every aspect of our lives. This interconnectivity has inevitably made its way into common household applications. There are many ways to convert your home to a Smart Home with solutions from companies like [Crestron](https://www.crestron.com) and [Control4](http://www.control4.com). But unfortunately, these solutions are often times far beyond the average middle-class American budget. Thankfully, solutions are hitting the market that don't necessarily need to break the bank. Here are 7 of the best upgrades you can make to turn your home into a Smart Home.

### 1. Smart Door Lock

A Smart lock replaces the existing lock on your door with one that can be locked and unlocked with an app on your phone. This is especially helpful for anyone who has a rental property or is doing renovations on a house and having construction crews coming by when they aren't around. This is because you have the ability to control who can and can't unlock the door. So instead of the possibility of having to replace your locks due to a problem former tenant or construction crew, you simply revoke their phone's access through the app and they can no longer lock or unlock your doors. A good Smart lock is one that still has a traditional lock, just in case the battery dies on your phone, like the [Kwikset Kevo](http://www.kwikset.com/kevo/default.aspx#intro), which retails for $199.

### 2. Programmable Outlets

A Smart programmable outlet switch plugs into your existing outlet, and provides you with a new power outlet that can be controlled via an app. You can use it to turn on a slow-cooker before you head home from work, or turn off any electronics you may have accidentally left on when you were in a hurry to leave the house. You can even program it to turn appliances or electronics on or off at certain times, in case you have a habit of falling asleep with the TV on. The best part is that it's a plug-in solution, so you don't need to have an electrician come in and replace your existing outlets. But the downside is the average $49 retail price, which can make a multiple-outlet upgrade end up quite expensive. A highly rated option is the [Belkin WeMo Insight](http://www.belkin.com/us/F7C029-Belkin/p/P-F7C029;jsessionid=A6B51893EC89F0728EC43F613C1EB802/), which retails for $49.

### 3. Smart Doorbell

We've all been there. You're settled on the couch, watching your favorite TV show and the doorbell rings. But is it the pizza delivery guy? Or is it that pesky door-to-door salesman who won't take no for an answer? Well, a company called [Ring](https://ring.com/) has a solution. It replaces your doorbell with one that has a built-in camera and two-way speaker. When someone rings your doorbell, you can pull up the app on your phone and see who is at the door. It also can notify you through the motion detector. So if a suspicious person walks up to the house, you are notified on your phone. And whether you're in the house or half way around the world, you can inform the suspicious individual that the police are on their way thanks to the two-way speaker, making for a neat little crime deterrent. This is one of the coolest upgrades you can make. The Ring doorbell retails for $199. Although there are a few other options on the market for a little less money, none of the current ones seem to have all the features and the styling of the Ring.

### 4. LED Smartbulb

If you're into Feng Shui, mood lighting, or just want your house parties to stand out from others, then LED Smartbulbs should be at the top of your list. These lightbulbs have multi-color capabilities and can be changed in just a couple seconds through the app. Smartbulbs, like the [ilumi](http://ilumi.co/collections/all-new-ilumi-smartbulb), allow you to maintain your body's natural rhythm by replicating the daily color and brightness cycle of the sun automatically. You can also manually change the color and brightness depending on the mood you're trying to set. The only downside is the $49-59 price per bulb, which can make upgrading all the bulbs in just one room of a house a $200+ investment. But the lifespan of up to 20 years helps ease the sticker shock.

### 5. Programmable Light Switch

If automation is what excites you, then these programmable light switches are the upgrade for you. These switches, like the [Belkin WeMo Light Switch](http://www.belkin.com/us/F7C030-Belkin/p/P-F7C030;jsessionid=A6B51893EC89F0728EC43F613C1EB802/), allow you to program your lights to a set schedule. Set the lights to turn on a few minutes before you usually come home from work, or turn off at a certain time at night, just in case you accidentally left them on. And the app allows you to name and easily program individual switches in the house, for an in-depth customizable experience. The $49 price per switch can add up quickly for use in multiple rooms. But since one switch typically controls multiple lights, the cost won't add up quite as drastically as the LED Smartbulb upgrade.

### 6. Learning Thermostat

You've probably heard of the [Nest Thermostat](https://nest.com/thermostat/meet-nest-thermostat/?alt=4). Most people think it's just a modern-looking programmable thermostat. But what makes this great is that you can adjust the temperature from your phone. So if you're at work and that winter storm starts rolling in sooner than expected, you can turn up the temperature of the thermostat before you leave the office, so the house will be nice and warm when you get home. Furthermore, it learns your preferences, which helps eliminate the need for manual programming. The only downside is that you are going to want to use all of the features just to help you justify the fact that you spent $250 on a thermostat.

### 7. Smart Smoke Detector

This one is the newest to market of the upgrades on this list. And it's as useful as it is cool, due to the potential life-saving application. Nest recently released their [Nest Protect](https://nest.com/smoke-co-alarm/meet-nest-protect/?alt=1) smoke and CO detector. Although the first version they released did have some problems, this second generation model is getting great customer reviews. The app ties multiple Nest detectors in your house, which act as alarms, both from the speaker inside the unit itself and through alerts sent to your phone. Whether you're in the bedroom upstairs or at work, you get a notification telling you if smoke was detected in the kitchen. It can detect both slow burning and fast burning fires. And the $99 price tag is pretty reasonable for such a highly functional and potentially life-saving device.
